
    "31-Knot Burke" — Arleigh Burke, U.S. Navy destroyer commander (for being unable to meet his habitual maximum speed)[1]


    "ABC" — Andrew Browne Cunningham, Second World War British admiral
    "Acey" — Albert C. Burrows, World War II U.S. Navy submarine commander[2]
    "Achmed" — Erich Bey, German Kriegsmarine admiral[3]
    "Allegheny Johnson" or "Alleghany Johnson" — Edward Johnson, Confederate Army general
    "Assi" — Hans Hahn, German fighter pilot during World War II
    "The Auk" — Claude Auchinleck, British Indian Army field marshal[4]
    "Autie" — George Custer, American army officer


    "Babe" —
        John H. Brown, World War II U.S. Navy submarine commander[2]
        Edward Heffron, World War II paratrooper
        Roderick Learoyd VC, World War II RAF bomber pilot[5]
    "Bad Hand" — Ranald S. Mackenzie, U.S. Army general in the American Civil War and Indian Wars
    "Bad Old Man" — Jubal Early, Confederate Army general
    "Bai Di Jiangjun 白地将军" (Chinese, literally "White Ground General") — Xiahou Yuan, general serving under the warlord Cao Cao in the late Eastern Han dynasty, for his death at the Battle of Mount Dingjun while fixing damaged chevaux de frise instead of being in command; "Bai Di" may have referred to Xiahou Yuan's lowly upbringing and thus his approach to attending to everything personally
    "Bai Ma Jiangjun 白马将军" (Chinese, "White Horse General") —
        Gongsun Zan, Eastern Han dynasty warlord, for his victories against the Wuhuan and Xianbei using his elite light cavalry force, the Bai Ma Yi Cong 白马义从 who solely rode white horses
        Pang De, late Eastern Han dynasty general who served under numerous warlords, for always riding a white horse and landing an arrow on Guan Yu's forehead while doing so
    "Bai Mian Shu Sheng 白面书生" (Chinese, literally "White Faced Scholar") — Lu Xun, general and statesman of the state of Eastern Wu during the Three Kingdoms period, for his perceived inexperience and lack of military qualities
    "Bai Pao Jiangjun 白袍将军" (Chinese, literally "White Robed General") and like nicknames —
        Chen Qingzhi, general of the Liang dynasty, for his prowess in the Battle of Xingyang
        Xue Rengui, "Bai Yi Jiangjun 白衣将军" (Chinese, literally "White-Dressed General"), famous general of the early Tang Dynasty, for the praise given by Emperor Taizong of Tang
    "Balaclava Ned" — Edwin Hughes, last survivor of the Charge of the Light Brigade
    "Baldy" —
        Richard S. Ewell, Confederate Army general
        Charles A. Pownall, American admiral in World War II
    "Barbara" – David G. M. Campbell, British general[6]
    "Barney" —
        Clifton W. Flenniken, Jr., U.S. Navy submarine commander[2]
        William B. Sieglaff, U.S. Navy submarine commander[2]
    "The Bart" — Philip Chetwode, British field marshal, Commander in Chief in India, and baronet (whence the nickname)
    "Batty Mac" — Archibald Cameron Macdonell, Canadian Army World War I general[7]
    "The Bear" — Norman Schwarzkopf Jr., United States Army general (the nickname he preferred over "Stormin' Norman")
    "The Bearded Man" — Frank Messervy, British Army general (because he tended not to shave in battle)
    "Beauty" — Harold M. Martin, U.S. Navy admiral[8]
    "Benny" — Raymond H. Bass, World War II U.S. Navy submarine commander[2]
    "Beetle" —
        John P. Roach, U.S. Navy submarine commander[2]
        Walter Bedell Smith Chief of Staff to Dwight D. Eisenhower in WWII, US Ambassador to the Soviet Union, Director of Central Intelligence
    "Betty" — Harold Stark, U.S. Navy admiral (after a mistaken pledge)[2]
    "Big Al, (The Sailor's Pal)" - Al Konetzni, American vice admiral[9]
    "The Big Fella" or "The Big Fellow" — Michael Collins, Irish general
    "Big Minh" — Dương Văn Minh, Vietnamese general (for his height and bulk)[10]
    "Bing" — Kenneth Cross, British Second World War RAF pilot
    "Bing Sheng 兵聖" (Chinese, literally "Soldier Saint") — Sun Wu, general, military strategist, and philosopher who served Wu in the Eastern Zhou period of ancient China
    "Birdy" – William Birdwood, British field marshal
    "Black Baron" – Michael Wittmann, German tank ace
    "Black Beast" — Mario Roatta, Italian general[11]
    "Black Bob" — Robert Craufurd, British Army general[12]
    "The Black Eagle" — Hubert Julian, Trinidadian colonel in the Imperial Ethiopian Air Force.
    "Black Jack" — John J. Pershing, U.S. Army World War I general
    "Black Knight of the Confederacy" — Turner Ashby, Confederate Army general
    "Black Knight" — Gerd von Rundstedt, German Army field marshal
    "The Black Rider" — Nikolaos Plastiras, Greek Army general and politician
    "Black Swallow of Death" — Eugene Bullard, African-American World War I fighter pilot
    "Blackie" — David John Williams, Canadian fighter ace
    "Blinker"— W. R. Hall, British admiral, head of Room 40 during the First World War[13]
    "Blondie" —
        Arnold Walker, RAF pilot
        Herbert Hasler, Second World War Royal Marines officer
    "Blood" — J. A. L. Caunter, British general[14]
    "Blood-n-Guts" — George S. Patton, Jr., American general in World War II (a nickname he rejected)[15]
    "Bloody Bill" —
        William T. Anderson, Confederate guerrilla leader
        William Cunningham, Loyalist militia commander in South Carolina
    "Bloody George" - George Alan Vasey, Second World War Australian general
    "Bluey" - Keith Truscott, Second World War Australian fighter ace
    "Blutiger Ferdinand" (“Bloody Ferdinand”) — Ferdinand Schörner, World War II German Field Marshal and convicted war criminal
    "Bobbie" — George W. E. J. Erskine, British general during the Second World War
    "Bobo" — Sigmund A. Bobczynski, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Bobs" — Frederick S. Roberts, British field marshal[16]
    "Bobwire Bob" --- Robert C. Kingston, U.S. Army General, Korea-Vietnam
    "Bohemian corporal" - Adolf Hitler (used by Erich von Manstein)
    "Bohemian Private" (German: Böhmischer Gefreiter) - Adolf Hitler
    "Bomber" — Arthur T. Harris, British Air Chief Marshal during the Second World War[17]
    "Boney" — Robert H. Close, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Boo" — Elwyn King, First World War Australian fighter ace
    "Boom" - Hugh Trenchard, British officer responsible for the founding of the Royal Air Force.[18]
    "Boots" — Frederick C. Blesse, American fighter ace
    "Boy" —
        Frederick A. M. Browning, Second World War British airborne general
        'Peter Mould, Second World War Royal Air Force flying ace
    "Brad" — Omar Bradley, U.S. general
    "Breaker" — Harry Harbord Morant, Australian Boer War soldier and convicted war criminal
    "Brute" — Victor H. Krulak, U.S. Marine Corps general
    "Bub" — Norvell G. Ward, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
    "Bubi" (German, "young boy", "kid") —
        Erich Hartmann, German fighter ace
        Alfred Schreiber, World War II German jet ace
    "Buck"
        Robert McNair, Canadian fighter ace
        Lynn Compton, World War II paratrooper officer
    "Bud" —
        Harold W. Bowker, Canadian fighter ace
        William P. Gruner, Jr., U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Walker Mahurin, USAAF fighter ace of World War II
    "Bug" —
        John J. Roach, U.S. Navy officer
    "Bull" —
        Denver Randleman [nl], World War II paratrooper
        William Halsey, U.S. Navy admiral (a nickname he never used or answered to)
        William Nelson, U.S. Navy admiral and Army general
        Joseph M. Reeves, U.S. Navy admiral
        William L. Wright, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
        Edmund Allenby, British First World War general
    "Bull of Scapa Flow" — Günther Prien, German World War II submarine ace (for his daring penetration of the British base)[19]
    "Bull of the Woods" – James Longstreet, Confederate general
    "Bully" — Emil Lang, Luftwaffe fighter ace of World War II
    "Banjo" — Julian Byng, British First World War general[7]
    "Buster" — Lionel Crabb, British frogman (after the swimmer)
    "Butch" —
        Robert A. Barton, Canadian fighter ace
        Orme C. Robbins, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        (from "butcher") Arthur T. Harris, British air force general (affectionately given by his men)
        Edward O'Hare, U.S. World War II fighter ace and Medal of Honor recipient
        Crosbie E. Saint, U.S. Army general
    "Butcher" — Arthur T. Harris, British Air Chief Marshal during the Second World War[20]
    "The Butcher of Bosnia" — Ratko Mladić, Bosnian Serb military leader during the Bosnian War[21]
    "The Butcher of Ethiopia" — Rodolfo Graziani, Italian Army general
    "The Butcher of Fezzan" — Rodolfo Graziani, Italian Army general
    "Butcher of the Somme" — Douglas Haig, British field marshal
    "Butcher of Ypres" — Berthold von Deimling, German general
    "Buyi Jiangjun 布衣将军" (Chinese, literally "Plainclothes General") — Fu Zuoyi, Chinese military leader widely praised for his defense of Suiyuan from the Japanese.
    "Buzz" — George Beurling, Canadian RAF fighter ace (a nickname he never acknowledged)


    "Caddy" — James A. Adkins, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Camel" - Hugh Trenchard, British officer responsible for founding the Royal Air Force
    "Candy Bomber" — Gail S. Halvorsen, U.S. Air Force officer [2]
    "Cat's Eyes" - John Cunningham, Second World War British night fighter ace (a nickname he didn't like)
    "Chancre Jack" - Chiang Kai-Shek, political and military leader who served as the leader of the Republic of China
    "Chang Sheng Jiangjun 常胜将军" (Chinese, literally "frequently-winning general") — Zhao Yun, general who lived in the late Eastern Han dynasty and early Three Kingdoms period, for his battle record
    "Chang Shi Wan 常十万" (Chinese, literally "Chang Hundred-Thousand") — Chang Yuchun, general of the early Ming dynasty, for his bravery and prowess
    "Chappie" — Daniel James, Jr., U.S. Air Force general[3]
    "Chargin' Charlie" — Charles A. Beckwith, U.S. Army colonel[22]
    "Chesty" — Lewis B. Puller, U.S. Marine general
    "Chick" — Bernard A. Clarey, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Chief"
        Leon N. Blair, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
        A. R. Corston, World War II RCAF pilot (due to being Cree)[23]
    "Ching" — Willis A. Lee, World War II U.S. admiral
    "Chink" - Eric Dorman-Smith, World War II British general
    "Chips" — Arthur S. Carpender, World War II U.S. submarine force commander[2]
    "Chummy" - James D. Prentice, World War II Canadian destroyer captain
    "Clever Hans" - Hans von Kluge, World War II German general[24]
    "Close-in Conolly" -- Richard Lansing Conolly, World War II U.S. Naval Admiral
    "Cobber" — Edgar J. Kain, World War II RAF fighter ace
    "Le Connétable" (French for The Constable) — Charles De Gaulle, French World War II general and later President of France
    "Crack" — Walter Hanna, U.S. Army general[25]
    "Crow" — Palmer H. Dunbar, Jr., U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Cump" — William Tecumseh Sherman, U.S. general
    "Curry" — August Thiele, German Kriegsmarine admiral[26]
    "Cy" — Marshall H. Austin, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Cyclone" — Emmett S. Davis, World War II U.S. colonel[27]
    "Cyrano" — Charles De Gaulle, French World War II general and later President of France


    "Da Guniang 大姑娘" (Chinese, "Big Young Girl") — Lin Biao, a Marshal of the People's Republic of China who was pivotal in the Communist victory in the Chinese Civil War, for his introverted nature
    "Da Shu Jiangjun 大树将军" (Chinese, "The Big Tree General") — Feng Yi, Chinese general of the Eastern Han Dynasty, for being humble[28]
    "Dan" — Lawrence R. Daspit, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Dang Dai Liu Bowen 当代刘伯温" (Chinese, "Present Day Liu Bowen") — Liu Bocheng, Chinese Communist military commander and Marshal of the People's Liberation Army
    "Debby" — Desmond Piers, Canadian admiral
    "Deke" (or "Deak") — William Parsons, American naval officer (armed Little Boy aboard Enola Gay on first nuclear bombing mission)
    "Desperate Frankie" — Louis Franchet d'Espèrey, French general during World War I
    "Dennis" — Eugene Wilkinson, U.S. submarine officer[2]
    "The Desert Fox" (German: "Wüstenfuchs") — Erwin Rommel, World War II German field marshal (Afrika Korps)
    "The Devil Commander" — Amedeo Guillet, Italian Cavalry Officer
    "Dickie" —
        Michael O'Moore Creagh, British general[29]
        Louis, Earl Mountbatten, British admiral and statesman
    "Dinghy" — Henry Melvin Young, Second World War RAF bomber pilot
    "Dinty" — John R. Moore, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Dixie" — Richard M. Farrell, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Dizzy" —
        H. R. Allen, British Air Force fighter ace[30]
        Gordon B. Rainer, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Donc" — Glynn R. Donaho, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Dogsbody" — Douglas Bader, Second World War British fighter ace and commander
    "Dolfo" — Adolf Galland, German fighter ace of World War II and General der Jagdflieger
    "Drug Stari" (Serbian: Old Friend) — Josip Broz Tito, Yugoslav general, later president-for-life of Yugoslavia
    "Dugout Doug" — Douglas MacArthur, U.S. general (for living in tunnels during the Japanese invasion of the Philippines)[2][31]
    "Dunkirk Joe" — William G. Tennant, British naval officer who oversaw the Dunkirk evacuation in 1940[32]
    "Dusty" — Robert Edson Dornin, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Dutch" — John M. Will, U.S. submarine officer[2]


    "Eagle" - Pyotr Bagration, Georgian general in the Russian army in the Napoleonic Wars
    "Electric Brain" — Raymond A. Spruance, U.S. admiral
    "Electric Whiskers" — Annibale Bergonzoli, Italian general[14]
    "Elphy Bey" — William G. K. Elphinstone, General, British commander in the First Anglo-Afghan War
    "Ensign" — Roy S. Benson, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Extra Billy" — William Smith, U.S. Congressman, Confederate general


    "Farrar the Para" - Anthony Farrar-Hockley, British general
    "Fearless Freddy" — Frederick W. Warder, U.S. ace submarine commander (a nickname he detested)[2][33]
    "Fei Jiangjun 飞将军" (Chinese, "The Flying General") — Li Guang, Western Han General, for his bravery against the Xiongnu
    "Fei Xiong 飞熊" (Chinese, "Flying Bear") — Jiang Ziya, Zhou Dynasty noble, statesman, and general, because of a dream that King Wen of Zhou had
    "Feng Chu 凤雏" (Chinese, "Fledgling Phoenix") — Pang Tong, adviser to the warlord Liu Bei in the late Eastern Han dynasty, for his erudite demeanor and great potential
    "The Fighting Bishop" — Leonidas Polk, Episcopal bishop and Confederate general
    "Fighting Bob" —
        Robley Dunglison Evans, US Navy admiral
        Robert Sale, British general in the First Anglo-Afghan War and First Anglo-Sikh War
    "Fighting Dick" —
        Richard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell, Irish royalist and Jacobite soldier
        Richard H. Anderson, Confederate general
        Israel B. Richardson, Union General
    "Fighting Joe" —
        Joseph Dunford (born 1955), US Marine Corps general, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and former Commandant of the Marine Corps
        Joseph Hooker (1814-1879), American Civil War Union Army major general[34]
        Joseph Wheeler (1836-1906), Confederate Army general and later US Army general and politician
    "The Fighting Quaker" — Smedley Butler, U.S. general
    "The Fool of Owari" — Oda Nobunaga, Japanese daimyō
    "Foul Weather Jack" – Vice-Admiral John Byron RN, British 18th century admiral
    "Fritz" — Frederick J. Harlfinger II, U.S. submarine commander[2][33]
    "Frog" — Francis S. Low, U.S. Navy vice admiral[2][35]
    "Fuel Oil" — Franklin O. Johnsonn, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Fuzzy" — Robert A. Theobald, U.S. admiral[36]


    "Gabby" — Francis Gabreski, U.S. Army Air Force fighter ace
    "Gee" — Leonard Gerow, U.S. general
    "Gefreiter" - Adolf Hitler, German leader and chancellor of the German Third Reich, referring to his rank in First World War
    "Gentleman Johnny" — John Burgoyne, British general (Revolutionary War)
    "The G.I. General" — Omar Bradley, U.S. general
    "Gin" —
        Charles W. Styer, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
        William Stovall, Jr., U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Ginger" —
        W. H. D. Boyle, British admiral
        James Lacey, British fighter ace
    "Gnu" — Andrew D. Mayer, U.S. Navy officer[37]
    "Granny" —
        Robert E. Lee, Confederate general[38]
        Elwell Stephen Otis, U.S. general
    "Gravedigger" — Henry Havelock, British general in The Indian Mutiny
    "Gray Ghost" — John S. Mosby, Confederate Army cavalry commander, American Civil War
    "Grey Fox" — George Crook, U.S. Army general, American Civil War
    "Grumble" — William E. Jones, Confederate general, American Civil War
    "Gu Bai Shun 顾百顺" (Chinese, literally "Gu the hundred-obedient") — Gu Zhutong, military general and administrator of the Republic of China, for his willingness to do Chiang Kai-Shek's bidding without question
    "Gu Zhi Elai 古之恶来" (Chinese, "Like the ancient Elai"; Elai was a bodyguard for King Zhou of Shang) — Dian Wei, general and bodyguard of the Eastern Han Dynasty serving under the warlord Cao Cao, for his physical strength
    "Gu Zhi Zhaohu 古之昭虎" (Chinese, "Like the ancient Zhaohu"; Zhaohu itself is a nickname for Duke Zhaomu of Zhou, who defeated 40,000 Dongyi of the Jianghuai with his 7,000 strong army) — Zhang Liao, general of the Eastern Han Dynasty and Cao Wei serving under the warlord Cao Cao, for his victory at the Battle of Xiaoyao Ford
    "Gulle" - Walter Oesau, World War II German fighter ace
    "Gus" - Harold L. Edwards, First World War Canadian air gunner[39]
    "Guts and Gaiters" – Arthur Currie, First World War Canadian general


    "Ham" — Wesley A. Wright, U.S. intelligence officer[2][40]
    The "Hammer" —
        Judah the Hammer, Jewish Rebel commander in the Maccabean Revolt.
        Charles Martel, Frankish commander at the Battle of Tours.
    "Hammerhead" — John C. Martin, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Hap" —
        Henry H. Arnold, USAAF/USAF General of the Air Force.
        Hobart R. Gay, U.S. Army officer, Patton's Chief of Staff
        Hyland B. Lyon, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "le Hardi" (French, the bold) — William Douglas, Scottish freedom fighter
    "Hard-Over-Harry" - Harry DeWolf, Canadian admiral
    "Harry Hotspur" — Sir Henry Percy, English soldier and rebel
    "He Huzi 贺胡子" (Chinese, "Bearded He") — He Long, general of the Chinese Red Army
    "He Popo 何婆婆" (Chinese, "Granny He") — He Yingqin, senior general of the Kuomintang during Republican China, and a close ally of Chiang Kai-shek, to describe him being second-in-command to Chiang
    "Hell Roaring Jake" — Jacob H. Smith, U.S. general
    "Hell Roaring Mike" — Michael Healy, U.S. Revenue Cutter Service captain
    "The Hero of Gallipoli" — Wehib Pasha, Turkish general
    "Hero of the Nile" — Horatio, Viscount Nelson, British admiral[41]
    "He-who-sees-in-the-dark" — Frederick Russell Burnham, U.S. scout; British major, Chief of Scouts; father of international Scouting movement.[42]
    "Hobo" — Percy Hobart, British general and tank warfare proponent
    "Honest John" — John Leitweiler, U.S. intelligence officer[43]
    "Hongjun Zhi Fu 红军之父" (Chinese, "Father of the Red Army") — Zhu De, Chinese general, warlord, politician, revolutionary and one of the pioneers of the Communist Party of China.
    "Horny" — Roza Shanina, Soviet sniper[44]
    "Howling Jake" — Jacob H. Smith, U.S. general
    "Howling Mad" — Holland M. Smith, U.S. Marine Corps general
    "Hu Bao Yi 呼保義" (Chinese, "Protector of Justice") — Song Jiang, leader of a group of Chinese outlaws who lived in the Song dynasty, nickname made famous by the novel Water Margin
    "Hu Chi 虎癡" (Chinese, "Tiger Fool") — Xu Chu, Cao Wei general who lived in the late Eastern Han dynasty and the Three Kingdoms period, for being strong yet simple-minded
    "Huang Xu'er 黄须儿" (Chinese, literally "Yellow beard lad") — Cao Zhang, Prince and General of Cao Wei, third son of Cao Cao
    "Hunter-Bunter" — Aylmer Hunter-Weston, British general
    "Hutch" — Damon W. Cooper, US Navy vice admiral, Aviator, and first Chief of Naval Reserve[45][46]


    "Ike" —
        Dwight D. Eisenhower, U.S. general
        Arnold H. Holz, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        William R. Wilson, U.S. submarine officer[2]
    "Irish" — Edward R. Hannon, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Ishkhan"— Nikoghayos Poghos Mikaelian, Armenian freedom fighter


    "Jack" — Leif J. Sverdrup, U.S. general
    "Jackie" — J. A. Fisher, British admiral
    "Jadex" - Jacques Dextraze, Canadian general
    "Jake" — John K. Fyfe, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
    "Jasper" — Wilfred J. Holmes, U.S. Navy intelligence officer[2][40]
    "Jiangdong Meng Hu 江东猛虎" (Chinese, "Fierce Tiger of Jiangdong") — Sun Jian, general and warlord who lived in the late Eastern Han dynasty, for his ferocity in battle
    "Jimmy" — John S. Thach, U.S. Navy fighter ace
    "Jin Fan Zei 锦帆贼" (Chinese, "Bandit with the Brocade Sails") — Gan Ning, general serving under the warlord Sun Quan in the late Eastern Han dynasty, for his past as a pirate and his easy-going personality
    "Jin Ma Chao 锦马超" (Chinese, literally "Brocade Ma Chao") — Ma Chao, general and warlord who lived in the late Eastern Han dynasty and early Three Kingdoms period, for his good looks and athleticism
    "Jock" —
        J. C. Campbell, British Army general
        J. C. K. Slater, British admiral
    "Joe" —
        Brigadier John Ormsby Evelyn Vandeleur (from his initials), WWII British Army officer
        Elton W. Grenfell, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
    "Johnnie" — James E. Johnson, British Royal Air Force fighter ace[18]
    "Johnny" —
        W. E. P. Johnson, British Royal Air Force flight instructor
        Frederick J. Walker, World War II British ASW destroyer task force commander[47]
    "Jorrocks" — Brian Horrocks, World War II British corps commander
    "Judge" — Ernest M. Eller, U.S. Navy admiral[48]
    "Jumbo" — H. M. Wilson, World War II British Army general.[49]
    "Jumpin' Jim" – James M. Gavin, U.S. paratroop general
    "The Jumping General" – James M. Gavin, U.S. paratroop general
    "Junior" — John S. McCain, Jr., World War II U.S. submarine commander[2] (a nickname he disliked)


    "Kalfie" — Henry J. Martin, South African Air Force officer
    "Killer"
        Clive Caldwell, Australian fighter ace of World War II (a name he detested)
        Liu Zhennian, Chinese officer and warlord[50]
    "Kindly Old Gentleman" or "KOG" — Hyman Rickover, father of the United States nuclear navy[51]
    "Kipper" — Kodandera Madappa Cariappa, Indian Army field marshal
    "King Billy" - King William III of England
    "King Kong" — Hara Chuichi, Japanese Navy admiral[52]
    "King of Scouts" — Frederick Russell Burnham, British major, Chief of Scouts & father of international Scouting movement.[53]
    "Kluger Hans" ("Clever Hans") — Günther von Kluge, German World War II field marshal


    "Lakeitel (German, "lackey") - Wilhelm Keitel, German World War II general staff officer
    "Lao Hu Zai 老虎仔" (Chinese, "Tiger Lad") — Xue Yue, Chinese Nationalist military general, also nicknamed by Claire Lee Chennault of the Flying Tigers as the "Patton of Asia"[54]
    "Lao Tou Zi 老头子" (Chinese, roughly "Old Man") — Chiang Kai-Shek, political and military leader who served as the leader of the Republic of China, nickname carries a slight connotation of being a gang leader
    "Lao Wang 老王" (Chinese, "Old Wang") — Wang Yaowu, high-ranking KMT general and the Governor of Shandong Province who successfully fought against both the Imperial Japanese Army and the Chinese Communists, for his ferocity and bravery in the fight against the Japanese
    "Lighthorse Harry" — Henry Lee III, U.S. general[55]
    "Lightning Joe" — J. Lawton Collins, American general
    "The Lion" —
        Karl Dönitz, German admiral
        Abu Jandal al-Kuwaiti, high-ranking Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant commander[56]
    "The Lionheart" - King Richard I of England, Christian commander in the Third Crusade
    "The Lion of Panjshir" - Ahmad Shah Massoud, Afghan guerilla leader
    "The Lion of Brzeziny" - Karl Litzmann, German general in World War I
    "Lion of the West" - Koos de la Rey, Boer general
    "Lion of West Transvaal" - Koos de la Rey, Boer general
    "Little Billy" —
        William Mahone, Confederate general
        James, Earl Cardigan, British general
    "Little Powell" - A. P. Hill, Confederate general
    "The Little Corporal" — Napoleon Bonaparte, 19th-century French field marshal and emperor
    "Little Texas" - Audie Murphy, World War II Medal of Honor recipient, used only by his close friends
    "Little Mac" - George B. McClellan, commander of the Union Army
    "Liu Da Dao 劉大刀" (Chinese, literally "Big Blade Liu") - Liu Ting, late Ming Dynasty general, for the ability to wield his 120 catty blade like any other
    "The Long Fellow" Éamon de Valera, Irish rebel leader and later statesman (due to his height)
    "Lucky" - Eugene B. Fluckey, U.S. World War II submarine commander and Medal of Honor recipient[57]


    "Mad Anthony" — Anthony Wayne, U.S. general
    "Mad Dog" — James Mattis, US Marine Corps general and Secretary of Defense
    "Mad Jack" - Jack Churchill, British Colonel in World War II
    "Mad Mike" —
        Mike Calvert, British Second World War leader of Special Forces formations[58]
        Mike Hoare, British officer and mercenary leader[59]
    "Majoren" (Norwegian, "The Major") - Hans Reidar Holtermann, Norwegian World War II military leader
    "Mang Xiahou 盲夏侯" (Chinese, "Blind Xiahou") - Xiahou Dun, general serving under the warlord Cao Cao in the late Eastern Han dynasty, for the loss of his left eye
    "Mang Zhang Fei 莽张飞" (Chinese, "Rash Zhang Fei") - Zhang Fei, general who served under the warlord Liu Bei in the late Eastern Han dynasty and early Three Kingdoms period, for his famously hot temper
    "Manila John" - John Basilone, United States Marine, World War II Medal of Honor recipient
    "The Marble Man" — Robert E. Lee, Confederate general (for his perfection at West Point)[38]
    "The Marble Model" — Robert E. Lee, Confederate general (for his perfection at West Point)[38]
    "Marshal Forwards" — Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher, Prussian general
    "Mary" — Arthur Coningham, New Zealand/Australian First World War flying ace and Second World War senior RAF officer
    "Maryland Stuart" — George H. Stewart, Confederate general
    "Meagher of the Sword" - Thomas Francis Meagher, Commander of the Union Irish Brigade during the American Civil War
    "Mei Ran Gong 美髯公" (Chinese, "Lord of the Magnificent Beard")- Guan Yu, general serving under the warlord Liu Bei in the late Eastern Han dynasty, nickname given by Emperor Xian of Han
    "Mick" — Edward Mannock, First World War British fighter ace
    "Mickey" — David Marcus, American Army colonel, helped train the nascent Israeli Army, became its first general (Aluf)[60]
    "Mike" — Frank W. Fenno, Jr., U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Micky" — Harold Brownlow Martin, Second World War Australian bomber pilot attached to the RAF
    "Ming the Merciless" — Leslie Morshead, Second World War Australian general, also in First World War
    "Mokka" — Mordechai Limon, Israeli admiral[61]
    "Moke" — William J. Millican, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Monk" — Benjamin Dickson, U.S. intelligence officer[62]
    "The Monster" — Jacob H. Smith, U.S. general
    "Monty" — Bernard Montgomery, Second World War British field marshal
    "Moon" — Wreford G. Chapple, World War II U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
    "Mush" (from "Mushmouth") — Dudley W. Morton, World War II U.S. ace submarine commander (for his Tennessee drawl)[2]
    "Mustapha" — Husband E. Kimmel, CINCPAC at Pearl Harbor 7 December 1941[63]
    "Murph" — Michael P. Murphy, Navy SEAL


    "Ned" — Edward L. Beach, Jr., World War II U.S. submarine commander and writer[2][33]
    "Nick" — George D. Wallace, U.S. cavalry officer


    "Oklahoma Pete" – Marc Mitscher, American World War II admiral
    "Ol' Blood and Guts" — George S. Patton, World War II U.S. general (a nickname he rejected)[64]
    "Ol' Fuss and Feathers" - Winfield Scott, U.S. Army general
    "Old Brains" - Henry Halleck, Union general
    "Old Dutch" — Edward C. Kalbfus, American admiral[65]
    "Old Flintlock" — Roger Hanson, Confederate general
    "Old Forwards" — Gebhard Leberecht von Blücher, Prussian general at the Battle of Waterloo
    "Old Gimlet Eye" — Smedley Butler, U.S. general
    "Old Hickory" - Andrew Jackson, U.S. general and President
    "Old Jube" — Jubal Early, Confederate general
    "Old Jubilee" — Jubal Early, Confederate general
    "Old Mac" - James McCudden, British First World War fighter ace
    "The Old Man of the Morea" – Theodoros Kolokotronis, military leader of the Greek War of Independence
    "Old Pap" — Sterling Price, Confederate general
    "Old Reliable" —
        William J. Hardee, Confederate general
        George H. Thomas, Union general
    "Old Rock" — Henry L. Benning, Confederate general
    "Old Stars"-- Ormsby M. Mitchel, Union general
    "Old Wooden Head" — John Bell Hood, Confederate general
    "Onkel" — Theo Osterkamp, German fighter ace of both world wars
    "Otter" — Orde Wingate, British commander of irregular forces in the Second World War
    "Ozzie" — Richard B. Lynch, U.S. submarine officer[2]


    "Pa" — Edwin M. Watson, American general
    "Pablo" — Squadron Leader Paul Mason, RAF pilot during Operation Desert Storm and author[66]
    "Pacifier of Libya" (Italian: Pacificatore della Libia) — Rodolfo Graziani, Italian Army general
    "Paddy" —
        Brendan Finucane, World War II Irish RAF fighter ace
        Hugh Gough, 19th century British Army general
        Robert Blair Mayne, British officer - Founding member of SAS
        W. H. Harbison, British RAF officer
        Paedo Trev, Royal Navy Petty Officer
    "The Panther Man" (Italian, L'uomo pantera) — Achille Starace, Italian Army major general, Blackshirt, and Fascist party leader
    "Papa" — Joseph Joffre, World War I French marechal
    "Pappy" —
        Greg Boyington, World War II U.S. Marine Corps fighter ace[67]
        Paul Gunn, World War II U.S. Army Air Force bomber pilot
    "Pappa Dönitz" - Karl Dönitz, German admiral
    "Pat" — J. Loy Maloney, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Patton of Asia — Xue Yue, Chinese Nationalist military general, nicknamed by Claire Lee Chennault of the Flying Tigers[54]
    "Peaches" — David Petraeus, United States Army general[68]
    "Peng Da Jiangjun 彭大将军"(Chinese, "Great General Peng") — Peng Dehuai, prominent Chinese Communist military leader, and served as China's Defense Minister from 1954 to 1959.
    "Pete" —
        Lloyd M. Bucher, U.S. submarine commander
        William E. Ferrall, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Ignatius J. Galantin, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        James Longstreet, Confederate general
        Marc Mitscher, World War II U.S. admiral
    "Petit Rouge" (French: Little Red) — Manfred von Richthofen, German fighter ace
    "Pi" — Herman A. Piczentkowski, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Pied Piper of Saipan" - Guy Gabaldon, U.S. Marine
    "Piggy" - Brian Boyle (SAAF officer)
    "Pilly" — Willis A. Lent, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Ping" — Theodore S. Wilkinson, U.S. Navy admiral and commander of ONI
    "Pinky" — Marvin G. Kennedy, U.S. Navy submarine and destroyer commander[2]
    "Pip" — G. P. B. Roberts, British general
    "Pips" - Josef Priller, World War II German fighter ace
    "Popo 婆婆" (Chinese, "Granny") — Luo Ronghuan, Chinese communist military leader, for his ability to work with Lin Biao despite the latter's personality, and his talent in managing logistics and other background work for him
    "Po Tui Jiangjun 跛腿將軍" (Chinese, "lame legged general") — Zhang Lingfu, high-ranking general of the Chinese National Revolutionary Army, injured during the Battle of Nanchang
    "Poco" — William W. Smith, U.S. Navy officer (Kimmel's Chief of Staff)[69]
    "Poet General" — Masaharu Homma, Imperial Japanese Army general known for his invasion of the Philippines[70]
    "Pompey" — Harold Edward Elliott, First World War Australian general
    "Popski" — Vladimir Peniakoff, Belgian-born commando in British service in the Second World War[71]
    "Prince John" — John B. Magruder, Confederate general
    "Pritzl" — Heinz Bär, German fighter ace


    "Quax" - Karl Schnörrer, German fighter ace of World War II
    "Quex" — H. F. P. Sinclair, British admiral and head of SIS


    "Raful" — Rafael Eitan, Israeli Chief of Staff and politician
    "Rebel" — Vernon L. Lowrance, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
    "Red" —
        James W. Coe, World War II U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
        Walter E. Doyle, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Ralph C. Lynch, Jr., U.S. submarine commander[2]
        William F. Raborn, U.S. admiral and Director of the CIA[2][72]
        Lawson P. Ramage, U.S. ace submarine commander[2]
        Douglas N. Syverson, U.S. submarine officer[2]
    "The Red Baron" (German: der Rote Baron) — Manfred von Richthofen, German fighter ace
    "The Red Battle-flyer" (German: der rote Kampfflieger) — Manfred von Richthofen, German fighter ace
    "The Red Knight" — Manfred von Richthofen, German fighter ace
    "Red Mike" — Merritt A. Edson, World War II U.S. Marine Raiders officer
    "Reeste" — Heinz Bär, German fighter ace
    "Reggie" — Harry George Smart, British air vice marshal
    "Ren Tu 人屠" (Chinese, literally "Human Butcher") — Bai Qi, general of the Qin state in the Warring States period of China, for being responsible for the deaths of a total of between 890,000 and 2,000,000 enemy soldiers
    "Rooney" — William Henry Fitzhugh Lee, Confederate general and U.S. Congressman[55]
    "Rosey" — Redfield Mason, U.S. cryptanalyst[40]
    "Rough and Ready" - Zachary Taylor, U.S. Army general
    "Rum" — John M. Jones, Confederate general


    "The Saint" — Augustus R. St. Angelo, U.S. submarine officer[2]
    "Sailor" — Adolph G. Malan, South African fighter ace in the RAF in the Second World War[73]
    "Sailor King" — King William IV of Great Britain (due to service in the Royal Navy)
    "Sally" — James J. Archer, Confederate general
    "Sam Bahadur" — Sam Manekshaw, former Indian Army field marshal
    "San Xing Jia Nu 三姓家奴" (Chinese, "Slave of Three Surnames") — Lü Bu, general and warlord of the late Eastern Han dynasty, for his betrayal of former masters Ding Yuan and Dong Zhuo
    "Sandy" — Louis D. McGregor, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Savvy" —
        Charles M. Cooke, Jr., World War II U.S. sailor[2]
        Leon J. Huffman, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Charles W. Read, U.S. Federal and Confederate naval officer
    "Schneller Heinz" (German, "Hurrying Heinz") — Heinz Guderian, World War II German panzer general
    "der Schweiger" (German, "The silent one") - Helmuth von Moltke the Elder, long-serving 19th century chief of the Prussian and later the German General Staff
    "Screwball" - George Beurling, World War II Canadian fighter ace
    "Seminole" — Edmund Kirby Smith, Confederate general
    "Shadow" – Lynn Garrison, RCAF fighter pilot and mercenary
    "Shanks" — Nathan G. Evans, Confederate general
    "Sharkey" — Nigel Ward, Royal Navy fighter pilot during the Falklands War and author.[74]
    "Shen Tong Dajiang 神通大将" (Chinese, roughly "Great General of Clever Ability") — Li Siye, general of the Tang Dynasty, for his prowess in the campaign against Chach
    "Shen Xu 申胥" (Chinese, "Xu of Shen") — Wu Zixu, general and politician of the Wu kingdom in the Spring and Autumn period
    "Shimi" — Simon Fraser, Second World War British commando leader
    "Shorty" —
        Charles D. Edmunds, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Robert H. Soule, U.S. 3rd Infantry Division commander[75]
    "Shot Pouch" — William H.T. Walker, Confederate general
    "Shy" — Edward C. Meyer, former United States Army Chief of Staff
    "Silent Otto" — Otto Kretschmer, World War II German ace submarine commander[47]
    "Skinny" — Francis W. Rockwell, U.S. Navy admiral[2]
    "Sky Samurai" — Saburō Sakai, World War II Japanese Navy fighter ace
    "Slew" — John S. McCain, Sr., World War II U.S. admiral and aviator
    "Smiling Albert" — Albert Kesselring, World War II Luftwaffe field marshal
    "Smitty" — John S. McCain, Jr., Vietnam War U.S. admiral
    "Soarer" – David G. M. Campbell (after winning the 1896 Grand National on a horse called "Soarer")[6]
    "Soupy" — James H. Campbell, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Spanky" — George Roberts, commander of the 99th Fighter Squadron (Tuskegee Airmen)
    "Sparky" _ Ronald Speirs, Governor of Spandau Prison
    "Speed" — John P. Currie, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Spider" — James Marks, former commander of the United States Army Intelligence Center
    "Spig" — Frank W. Wead, U.S. Navy aviator and screenwriter
    "Spike" —
        William H. P. Blandy, U.S. Navy admiral[2]
        William Eckert, U.S. Air Force lieutenant general and fourth commissioner of Major League Baseball
        Martin P. Hottel, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        William W. Momyer, U.S. Air Force general and World War II flying ace
    "Splash" – Edward Ashmore, British general who served in the Royal Flying Corps and RAF during World War I before rejoining the army to lead air defence
    "Spoons" – Benjamin F. Butler, Union general
    "Spud" — Elbert C. Lindon, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Spuds" -Theodore G. Ellyson, U.S. Naval Aviator
    "Stan" — Roderic Dallas, World War I Australian fighter ace
    "Steam" — Elliott E. Marshall, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Star of Africa" — Hans-Joachim Marseille, German flying ace
    "Stonewall" — Thomas J. Jackson, Confederate general
    "Stoney" — Clifford H. Roper, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Stormin' Norman" — Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr., U.S. general (a nickname he disliked)
    "Strafer" — W. H. E. Gott, British general (from a German propaganda poster, Gott strafe England)
    "Stuffy" — Hugh C. T. Dowding, commander of Fighter Command during the Battle of Britain[73]
    "Sunshine" — Stuart S. Murray, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Swanky Syd" – S. T. B. Lawford, British general (from his penchant for appearing full dress uniform and in the company of beautiful women)
    "The Swamp Fox" — Francis Marion, U.S. general
    "The Swamp Fox of the Confederacy" — M. Jeff Thompson, Confederate general
    "Swede" —
        Eliot H. Bryant, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Charles B. Momsen, World War II U.S. submarine force commander, inventor of the Momsen lung[2]
    "The Swedish knight"— Sir Sidney Smith, British naval officer in the Napoleonic Wars who was knighted by the Swedish Crown
    "Systematic Joe" — Sir Stanley Maude, British general in Mesopotamia during World War I (for his carefully planned campaign advancing up the Tigris river)


    "Taffy"
        James I. T. Jones, British World War One fighter ace
        Trafford Leigh-Mallory, British Second World War Royal Air Force officer
    "Taigong Wang 太公望" (Chinese, roughly "Hopeful Grand Duke") — Jiang Ziya, Zhou Dynasty noble, statesman, and general, for being the 'master' King Wen of Zhou had hoped for
    "Tenacious" — Tanaka Raizo World War II Japanese destroyer admiral (for action in the Solomon Islands)[1][76]
    "Terrible Turner" — R. Kelly Turner, Admiral USN in World War II
    "The Great Asparagus" — Charles De Gaulle, French general and later President of France
    "The Terror" — Edward Quinan, Indian Army General in World War II[77]
    "The Terror of Morocco" - Aarne Juutilainen, Finnish army captain, who also served in the French Foreign Legion
    "The Tiger" - Suheil al-Hassan, Syrian Arab Army Brigadier General
    "The Young Napoleon" - George B. McClellan, Union general
    "Tex" —
        Forrest R. Biard, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
        David Hill, Flying Tigers fighter ace
        Heber H. McLean, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Leonard S. Mewhinney, U.S. submarine commander[2]
        Chris Kyle, U.S. Navy SEAL
    "Thunderbolt" —
        Bayezid I, Ottoman sultan
        Georgios Kondylis, Greek Army general and politician
    "Tiger of Malaya" — Yamashita Tomoyuki, World War II Japanese general[31]
    "Tin Legs" - Sir Douglas Bader - Second World War RAF ace
    "Tiny" —
        Edmund Ironside, British field marshal and Chief of the Imperial General Staff
        Frank C. Lynch, Jr., U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Tooey" — Carl A. Spaatz, American general, first Chief of Staff of the United States Air Force
    "Tubby" — Arthur Allen, Second World War Australian general
    "Turkey Neck" — George C. Crawford, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]


    "Uncle Bill" — William Slim, British Second World War general in Burma
    "Uncle Billy" — William T. Sherman, U.S. Civil War general
    "Uncle Charlie" — Charles A. Lockwood, Jr., World War II U.S. Pacific Fleet Submarine Force commander[2]
    "Uncle John" — John Sedgwick, U.S. Civil War general
    "Uncle Wiggly Wings" — Gail S. Halvorsen, U.S. Air Force officer[78]


    "Vati (German for "Pappy" or "Daddy") - Werner Mölders, German fighter ace
    "Vinegar Joe" — Joseph Stillwell, U.S. general
    "Valkoinen Kuolema" (Finnish for "white death") - Simo Häyhä, Finnish sniper in Winter War


    "War Horse" – James Longstreet, Confederate general
    "Warrior Monk" – James Mattis, retired US Marine Corps general and US Secretary of Defense
    "Weary"
        Edward Dunlop, Australian surgeon renowned for his leadership role while imprisoned by the Japanese during the Second World War
        Charles W. Wilkins, U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Weegee" — William G. Brown, World War II U.S. submarine commander[2]
    "Wen Hou 温候" (Chinese, "Marquis of Wen") — Lü Bu, general and warlord of the late Eastern Han dynasty, a title granted by Dong Zhuo which became a household name
    "Westy" - William Westmoreland, Commander of U.S. forces during the Vietnam War
    "Whiskey" - Andrew Jackson Smith, Union Army general
    "White Death" - Simo Häyhä, Finnish Sniper during the Winter War
    "The White Death of the Saracens" – Nikephoros II Phokas Byzantine general and emperor
    "The White Mouse"- Nancy Wake, for her ability to elude capture
    "The White Tornado" — Adrian Cummins, Royal Australian Navy commodore, for his 'whirling' manner
    "Wild Bill" - William J. Donovan, Medal of Honor recipient, Army major general and first director of the Office of Strategic Services
    "Willie" — J. B. Tait, British bomber pilot in the Second World War
    "Wingy" — James M. L. Renton, British general (for having lost an arm in battle)
    "Winkle" - Eric Brown, British Second World War test pilot
    "Wizard of the Saddle" — Nathan Bedford Forrest, Confederate cavalry general
    "Wolong 卧龙" (Chinese, "Crouching Dragon") — Zhuge Liang, politician, military strategist, writer, engineer and inventor during the late Eastern Han dynasty, and Imperial Chancellor and regent of Shu Han during the Three Kingdoms period, for his ambition and great potential
    "Wooch" — Kendall J. Fielder, U.S. Army intelligence officer[79]
    "Wooden Box" - Richard Geoffrey Pine-Coffin, British Army parachute officer during the Second World War
    "Wop" — W. R. May, Canadian aviator in the First World War
    "Wu Tzu 吴子" (Chinese, 'Tzu' is used in respect) — Wu Qi, military leader, general, Legalist philosopher, and politician in the Warring States period
    "Wully" - Sir William Robertson, 1st Baronet - Chief of the Imperial General Staff during the First World War, never lost traces of a working-class accent
    "Wutz" -- Wilhelm-Ferdinand Galland, World War II Luftwaffe fighter pilot and brother of Adolf Galland


    "Xi Chu Ba Wang 西楚霸王" (Chinese, "Hegemon-King of Western Chu") — Xiang Yu, Late Qin Dynasty Warlord, King of Western Chu during the Chu–Han Contention, for his immense bravery and ferocity
    "Xiang Shuai 香帅" (Chinese, "Fragrant Marshall") – Zhang Zhidong, important Chinese official of the late Qing dynasty, because of his courtesy name Xiang Tao 香涛
    "Xin Shuai 馨帅" (Chinese, "Aromatic Marshall") – Sun Chuanfang, Zhili clique warlord and protégé of the "Jade Marshal" Wu Peifu (1874–1939).,[80] because of his courtesy name Xin Yuan 馨远
    "Xiao Ba Wang 小霸王" (Chinese, "Little Hegemon-King"), also "Zhi'er 猘兒" (Chinese, roughly "Impulsive and Brave Lad") - Sun Ce, general and warlord of the late Eastern Han dynasty, for his bravery
    "Xiao Wei Yuan Zhang 小委员长" (Chinese, "Little Chairman"), - Chen Cheng, Chinese political and military leader, and one of the main National Revolutionary Army commanders during the Second Sino-Japanese War and the Chinese Civil War, because Chiang Kai-Shek was often referred to as 'Chairman', thus to describe Chen's position as second-in-command
    "Xiao Zhuge 小诸葛" (Chinese, "Little Zhuge Liang"), - Bai Chongxi, Chinese general in the National Revolutionary Army of the Republic of China (ROC) and a prominent Chinese Nationalist leader.,[81] for his many battlefield exploits during the Northern expedition
    "Xue Ping Gui 薛平贵" (Chinese, literally "Xue the Parity and Expensive") - Xue Yue, Chinese Nationalist military general, given to him by the Hunanese people for his interference in the price of rice in Hunan for the war effort


    "Ye Canzuo 叶参座" (Chinese, "Chief of Staff Ye") – Ye Jianying, Chinese communist general, Marshal of the People's Liberation Army.
    "Yi Shen Shi Dan 一身是胆" (Chinese, literally "a body of bravery") – Zhao Yun, general who lived in the late Eastern Han dynasty and early Three Kingdoms period, for his numerous acts of bravery, especially in the Battle of Han River
    "Yu Shuai 玉帥" (Chinese, "Jade Marshall") – Wu Peifu, major figure in the struggles between the warlords who dominated Republican China from 1916–27, because of his courtesy name Zi Yu 子玉
    "Yu Shuai 雨帅" (Chinese, "Rain Marshall") – Zhang Zuolin, warlord of Manchuria from 1916–28, during the Warlord Era in China, because of his courtesy name Yu Ting 雨亭
    "Yue Wangye 岳王爷" (Chinese, roughly "Royal Highness Yue") – Yue Fei, military general who served the Southern Song dynasty, for his posthumous rank which became a household nickname
    "Yurufun" (Japanese, meaning roughly "droopy drawers") – Shimada Shigetaro, Japanese admiral in World War II[82]


    "Zhou Lang 周郎" (Chinese, "Zhou the Youth") – Zhou Yu, military general and strategist serving under the late Eastern Han warlord Sun Ce, for his youth, good looks and impressive battle record
    "Ziggy" – Clifton Sprague, US admiral in World War II